# Use an event-driven trigger for indexing in Azure Cognitive Search

This C# sample is an Azure Function app that demonstrates event-driven indexing in Azure Cognitive Search. If you've used indexers and skillsets before, you know that indexers can run on demand or on a schedule, but not in response to events. This demo shows you how to set up an indexing pipeline that responds to data update events. Instead of an indexer, the demo uses a function app that listens for data updates in Cosmos DB or Blob Storage. Instead of skillsets (which are indexer-driven), this demo makes direct calls to Cognitive Services. The enriched output is sent to a different Cosmos DB database. From there, the data is pushed into a queryable search index in Cognitive Search.

To trigger this workflow, you'll add data to either Cosmos DB or Blob Storage. Either event starts the workflow. When all processing is complete, you should be able to query a search index for content from the page.

[Sample data](/sample-data/) consists of pages from Wikipedia about famous deserts (Sahara, Sonoran, and so forth). Files are provided in PDF and JSON format. JSON files should be uploaded to the "pages" container in Cosmos DB. PDFs should be uploaded to the "wikipedia-documents" container in Azure Storage.

## Prerequisites

+ [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download), with a [C# extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.csharp) and [.NET Core tools](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=formulahendry.dotnet)
+ [Azure Cognitive Search](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/search/search-create-service-portal), Basic or above
+ [Azure Cognitive Services](https://docs.microsoft.com//azure/cognitive-services/cognitive-services-apis-create-account), multi-service and multi-region
+ [Azure Cosmos DB (SQL API)](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/sql/how-to-create-account)
+ [Azure Storage](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/common/storage-account-create)
+ An [Azure Function app](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-function-app-portal#create-a-function-app), with a runtime stack of .NET 6 on a Windows operating system. The following screenshot illustrates the configuration.

  :::image type="content" source="readme-images/create-function-app.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the create function app.":::

## Set up storage and get connection information

Use Azure portal to create databases and containers for storing data in COsmos DB and Azure Storage. While in the portal, get the keys and connection strings you'll need for establishing connections. You'll paste these values into the local.settings.json file in a later step.

1. In Cosmos DB, use **Data Explorer** to create a database named "Wikipedia" and a container named "pages". The "pages" container will store Wikipedia pages as JSON documents.

1. Create a second database named "Wikipedia-Knowledge-Store" and a container named "enriched-output". This database stores all output generated by Cognitive Services, whether its from JSON file updates in the "pages" container, or PDF file updates in Azure Storage.

   :::image type="content" source="readme-images/cosmos-db-setup.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Cosmos DB Data Explorer with databases and containers.":::

1. While in Cosmos DB, open the **Keys** page and get a full connection string for account. Also copy the individual values for the key and URI.

1. In Azure Storage, use **Storage browser** to create a container named "wikipedia-documents". This container will store Wikipedia pages as PDF files.

   :::image type="content" source="readme-images/blob-container.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Storage with the blob container for storking Wikipedia files.":::

1. While in Azure Storage, open the **Access keys** page and get a full connection string for account.

## Get started

1. Clone the sample repo or download a ZIP of its contents to get the demo code.

1. Start Visual Studio Code and open the folder containing the project.

1. Modify **local.settings.json** to provide the connection information needed to run the app. You can find these values in the Azure portal.

   + For "AzureWebJobsStorage", navigate to your function app. Get the "AzureWebJobsStorage" connection string from the **Configuration** page.

     :::image type="content" source="readme-images/app-web-jobs-storage-connection-string.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the configuration page.":::

   + For "serverlessindexing_STORAGE", navigate to your Azure Storage account. Get the full connection string from the **Access keys** page. 

   + For "serverlessindexing_DOCUMENTDB", navigate to your Cosmos DB account. Get the full connection string from the **Keys** page. Make sure you remove the trailing semicolon (`;`) character from the connection string after pasting this string.

   + For "KS_Cosmos_Endpoint", "KS_Cosmos_Key", "KS_Cosmos_DB", and "KS_Cosmos_Container", get the individual values from **Data Explorer** and the **Keys** page.

   + For "Cog_Service_Key" and "Cog_Service_Endpoint", navigate to your Cognitive Services multi-region account. Get the key and endpoint from the **Keys and Endpoint** page.

   + For "Search_Service_Name" and "Search_Admin_Key", navigate to your search service. Get just the service name (not the full URL) from the **Overview** page. Get the admin API key from the **Keys** page. This demo creates a search index on your search service using the "Search_Index_Name" that you provide in settings.

1. Press F5 to run the sample locally.

1. Wait for the lease to be acquired. 

   :::image type="content" source="readme-images\wait-for-event.png" alt-text="Screenshot of terminal output with host lease acquired.":::

1. At this point, return to Azure portal and upload either a JSON file to Cosmos DB ("pages" container in the "Wikipedia" database) or upload a PDF file to Azure Storage ("wikipedia-documents" in Blob Storage).

## Objects created in this demo

As part of set up, you created multiple databases and containers. Other objects are created when the demo runs. When this demo runs, it creates the following assets in your Azure resources.

+ In Azure Functions, two functions are added to your function app:
  + BlobIndexer function that triggers enrichment and indexing when content is added to blob container ("pages")
  + CosmosIndexer function that triggers enrichment and indexing when content is added to blob container ("wikipedia-documents")

+ In Cosmos DB, a container for workflow state ("leases") is created by the demo code. The leases container stores state information while your app is running.

+ In Cosmos DB, the "Wikipedia-Knowledge-Store" database that you created earlier will collect enriched output generated by Cognitive Services when you add JSON files and PDFs to the pipeline. 

+ In Azure Cognitive Search, a search index ("wikipedia-index") is created and loaded by the demo code. It's based on the schema provided in DocumentModel class and the name provided in the JSON settings file.

## Deploy to Azure

Optionally, if you'd like to switch from local to cloud-based processing, transfer the connection information from **local.settings.json** to **appsettings.json** and deploy the app.

1. Fill in **appsettings.json** with the connection information necessary to reach all Azure resources. The entries are similar to local.settings.json, but these entries will be read by your app once it's deployed on Azure.

1. In Visual Studio Code, right-click the function app and select **Deploy to Azure**.

This demo uses hard-code access keys and connection strings for the connection. We strongly recommend that you either encrypt the keys using Azure Key Vault, or use Azure Active Directory for authentication and authorized access.

## Explore the code

This demo is based on a [serverless event-based architecture with Azure Cosmos DB and Azure Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/sql/change-feed-functions). The workflow of this demo is as follows:

+ A function app listens for events in an Azure data source. This demo provides two functions, one for watching a Cosmos DB database, and another for watching an Azure blob container.

+ When a data update is detected, the function app starts an indexing and enrichment process:

  + First, the app calls Cognitive Services to enrich the content. It uses the Computer Vision OCR API to "crack" the document and find text. It then calls [Azure Cognitive Service for Language](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cognitive-services/language-service/overview) for language detection, entity recognition, and sentiment analysis. The enriched output is stored in a new blob container in Azure Storage.

  + Second, the app makes an indexing call to Azure Cognitive Search, indexing the enriched content created in the previous step. The search index in Azure Cognitive Search is updated to include the new information. The demo uses the [**Azure.Search.Documents**](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Search.Documents/) library from the Azure SDK for .NET to create, load, and query the search index.
